README.md, before:


Multi-user SFS plugin for Xrootd
================================

A filesystem plugin to allow Xrootd to interact with underlying POSIX filesystems as
different users.

This plugin will change the thread's filesystem UID to match the logged in user name, meaning a user logging into
the `xrootd` as user `atlas` will read and write to the filesystem as the UID associated with the Unix user `atlas`;
without this, Xrootd will always read and write as the Unix user `xrootd`.

To configure, add the following line to the Xrootd configuration file:

```
ofs.authlib libXrdAccSciTokens.so default
```

Additionally, the Xrootd process must be started with the appropriate Linux capabilities in order to successfully
execute the `setfsuid` and `setfsgid` calls.  To do this, first set the capabilities on the file `/usr/bin/xrootd` itself:

```
setcap 'cap_setgid+ep cap_setuid+ep' /usr/bin/xrootd
```

Alternately, you may want to copy this to a different binary, such as `/usr/bin/xrootd-privileged`.  Symlinks do not work with capabilities.

Then, override the systemd unit by creating an override directory:

```
# mkdir /etc/systemd/system/xrootd@multiuser.service.d/
```

Then, in `/etc/systemd/system/xrootd@multiuser.service.d/override.conf`:

```
[Service]
CapabilityBoundingSet=CAP_SETUID CAP_SETGID
```

This is assuming that you are trying to start with the configuration in `/etc/xrootd/xrootd-multiuser.cfg`.

Commit message:

Allow systemd to provide capabilities
With this change, we have xrootd start as root and then drop privileges
to the xrootd user.  This allows the service to inherit capabilities
provided by systemd on RHEL7 (since RHEL7 systemd doesn't support ambient
capabilities).

This commit also includes code to test for permitted, but not effective,
capability settings (default for systemd) and set the effective capabilities
accordingly.

New systemd unit provided in addition to updated README.

README.md, after:


Multi-user SFS plugin for Xrootd
================================

A filesystem plugin to allow Xrootd to interact with underlying POSIX filesystems as
different users.

This plugin will change the thread's filesystem UID to match the logged in user name, meaning a user logging into
the `xrootd` as user `atlas` will read and write to the filesystem as the UID associated with the Unix user `atlas`;
without this, Xrootd will always read and write as the Unix user `xrootd`.

To configure, add the following line to the Xrootd configuration file:

```
ofs.authlib libXrdAccSciTokens.so default
```

Additionally, the Xrootd process must be started with the appropriate Linux capabilities in order to successfully
read and write as different users (i.e., execute the `setfsuid` and `setfsgid` calls).  To suppor this, we have a
separate systemd unit called `xrootd-privileged@.service`.

So, to start the configuration in `/etc/xrootd/xrootd-clusterd.cfg` with the multiuser plugin enabled, execute:

```
systemctl start xrootd-privileged@clusterd
```
